
Cladding Spraying Services | Sparta Coatings
The UK's Leading Experts in Commercial & Industrial Metal Cladding Spraying

Sparta Coatings are specialist cladding spraying contractors with over 10 years of experience delivering professional metal cladding coating systems to commercial and industrial buildings across the South of England and the wider UK. As approved applicators for the UK's leading cladding coating manufacturers — including HD Sharmans, Giromax, Liquisil, PPG, AkzoNobel, Rustoleum, Rooflock, Manor Coating Systems, and Tor Coatings — every project we deliver is backed by a manufacturer-issued warranty.

[Get Your Free Quote] [Get In Touch Now]

What Is Cladding Spraying?
Cladding spraying is the professional on-site application of specialist, high-performance coating systems to existing metal, steel, aluminium, Plastisol, PVF2, and composite wall cladding panels — completely restoring their protective qualities and appearance without the enormous cost and disruption of full cladding replacement.

Using professional airless spray equipment and manufacturer-approved coating systems, our trained and accredited applicators deliver a consistent, even finish across entire building elevations — sealing cut-edge corrosion, restoring UV-degraded surfaces, and protecting your cladding for the next 10–20 years.

Suitable for all commercial and industrial building types, including:

Commercial office buildings and business parks

Industrial warehouses and distribution centres

Factories and manufacturing plants

Retail units and shop fronts

Agricultural buildings and farm stores

Self-storage facilities

Educational and public sector buildings

Cladding Spraying Pricing
Scope	Typical Price
Metal / steel wall cladding	From £50/m²
Plastisol / PVF2 cladding (specialist system)	POA — free survey
Composite insulated panel system	POA — free survey
Full building elevation package	POA — free survey
All pricing includes full condition survey, biocidal treatment, surface preparation, cut-edge treatment, priming, topcoat application, project audit, and manufacturer warranty sign-off. Contact us for a free, no-obligation site visit and written specification.

Why Choose Cladding Spraying Over Full Replacement?
Full cladding replacement is one of the most expensive and disruptive maintenance operations a commercial or industrial building owner can face — costing tens of thousands of pounds and requiring scaffolding, structural work, and weeks of disruption. Our approved cladding coating systems deliver the same result at a fraction of the cost.

Dramatically cheaper — Typically 60–80% less than full cladding replacement

10–20 year manufacturer warranties — Issued by the approved coating supplier, not just the contractor

Cut-edge corrosion treatment included — The most critical and common failure point on metal cladding properly treated

Unique colour matching — Any RAL or BS colour, including exact matching to pre-existing colours even if original records are lost

Minimal operational disruption — Out-of-hours and phased working available

In-situ repairs — Dents, holes, scratches, and redundant fixtures repaired before coating

UV and weather resistant — Professional coatings engineered to withstand industrial atmospheric conditions

Manufacturer-audited process — Every project stage signed off by the approved paint supplier

The Paints & Products We Use
Metal wall cladding demands specialist coating systems developed specifically for profiled steel, aluminium, Plastisol, and PVF2 substrates. These are not general industrial coatings — they are purpose-formulated, BBA-certified cladding refurbishment systems. As approved applicators for all major manufacturers, we specify the correct product for your exact cladding type, condition, and environment.

Surface Preparation
Biocidal / Fungicidal Wash — Applied across all cladding surfaces first to kill and neutralise all algae, moss, lichen, and biological growth before any mechanical preparation begins

Industrial Pressure Washer (up to 3,000 PSI) — Removes all failed coatings, loose oxidisation, biological deposits, and surface contamination down to a sound substrate

ISO 12944-4 Contamination Removal — All corrosion salts, chlorides, grease, and accumulated contamination removed to the required standard before priming. Soluble salt testing carried out on high-specification projects

T-Wash Mordant Solution (Galvanised sections) — Applied to any galvanised steel sections to chemically activate the zinc surface before priming

Specialist PVDF / PVF2 Preparation
PVDF (PVF2) cladding presents the most challenging adhesion scenario in the cladding industry. Its fluorine polymer surface repels conventional primers — making specialist preparation and primer selection non-negotiable:

Tikkurila Mould Solution — Applied to PVDF surfaces to neutralise all biological contamination before abrading. Specifically referenced in the HD Sharmans Temadur specification for PVDF cladding preparation

Solvent Thinned Wipe-Down (Thinner 1048) — All PVDF and Plastisol surfaces are wiped with appropriate solvent thinner to remove all residual plasticiser from the surface before primer application — a critical step specified by HD Sharmans for Plastisol cladding

Primers
Temadur 20 Two-Pack Anti-Corrosive Primer — The HD Sharmans-specified, two-component polyurethane anti-corrosive primer for all bare metal areas on steel, zinc, and aluminium cladding. Applied at 50 microns DFT per coat to all corroded, bare, or stripped areas before the topcoat system. Provides the corrosion-inhibiting base layer for the full Temadur 20/50 system

Temabond ST200 (Stripe Coat / Patch Primer) — Applied specifically to cut edges, bolt heads, fixings, overlaps, and all difficult-to-spray areas at 100 microns DFT before the main primer coat. This critical step ensures full coating coverage at the most vulnerable corrosion points on any cladding system

Liquisil Metalseal Primer — For cladding projects specified under the Liquisil system, a specialist silicone-compatible primer is applied before the Metalseal topcoat to ensure the correct system build on PVDF, Plastisol, and heavily weathered metal surfaces

Giromax Cladding Coat Primer — Applied as the base coat of the Giromax polymer hybrid cladding system on aged, corroded, or weathered steel cladding — penetrating and binding to the substrate including tightly adherent rust, and providing the adhesion foundation for the Giromax topcoat

Topcoats
HD Sharmans Temadur 20 (2K Semi-Matt PU) — The professional standard for exterior steel, zinc, and aluminium wall cladding maintenance in the UK. A two-component, solvent-based, semi-matt (20% sheen) polyurethane topcoat applied at 50 microns DFT per coat — minimum two full coats for a total 200 microns DFT system. UV resistant, colour stable, and available in any RAL or BS colour reference (excluding metallic). A 10-year material warranty is available when specified through HD Sharmans as an approved applicator

HD Sharmans Temadur 50 (2K Semi-Gloss PU) — The semi-gloss (50% sheen) variant of the Temadur system for wall cladding requiring a higher sheen level. Same two-component polyurethane chemistry and outstanding UV resistance, available across the full RAL and BS range. 10-year material warranty available

Giromax Roofcoat (Wall Cladding System) — Giromax's BBA-certified, polymer hybrid coating for aged and corroded profiled steel and aluminium cladding panels. Uses proprietary laminar flake technology to seal, bond with existing oxidisation, and form a tough elastomeric coating. Single component, applied by airless spray. 20-year guarantee, UV stable, weather resistant — unique in its ability to be applied to marginally prepared surfaces in wet conditions

Liquisil Metalseal (Silicone Metal Cladding Coating) — A 100% UV-stable, BBA-certified silicone coating for profiled metal cladding panels, developed by Building Surveyors specifically for the UK's commercial cladding market. Single-coat application by airless spray. Completely immune to UV degradation and colour fade, with a 25-year guarantee — the longest available in the cladding coating industry

PPG / AkzoNobel Polyurethane Cladding Topcoats — As approved applicators for both PPG and AkzoNobel, we also specify and apply their professional exterior metal cladding coating ranges where the project specification, warranty requirement, or colour demands it

Cut-Edge Corrosion Treatment
Cut-edge corrosion is the single most common failure mode on profiled steel wall cladding in the UK. Our dedicated treatment process — carried out before any primer or topcoat application:

Degrease and clean all sheet cut edges

Apply Temabond ST200 stripe coat at 100 microns DFT to all edges

Seal laps and overlaps with appropriate sealant where required

Overcoat all treated edges with the full Temadur or Giromax topcoat system

All cut-edge treatments signed off to HD Sharmans Seamsil specification where applicable

Colour Matching
Any RAL Classic or RAL Design colour reference — including greys, greens, reds, blues, and earth tones

Any BS 4800 / BS 381C British Standard colour

Pre-existing colour matching — We can match your building's existing cladding colour precisely even when original system records have been lost

Note: Metallic colours are not available through the HD Sharmans Temadur system — matt, semi-matt, and semi-gloss only

Our Cladding Spraying Process
1. Free Site Survey & Written Specification
We carry out a full condition survey — assessing cladding type, substrate condition, extent of cut-edge corrosion, delamination, and biological growth. We identify the correct coating system, corrosivity category, and warranty option, and provide a written specification and no-obligation quotation.

2. Method Statement & Risk Assessment
All cladding projects are supported by a full COSHH assessment, risk assessment, method statement, and proof of liability insurance.

3. HSE-Compliant Safe Access
All work at height is carried out in full compliance with the Work at Height Regulations 2005, using MEWP, scaffold, or rope access systems as defined in the method statement.

4. Biocidal Treatment & Pressure Washing
Fungicidal wash applied and left to dwell. The entire elevation is then pressure washed at up to 3,000 PSI, removing all biological growth, failed coatings, and contamination.

5. Surface Preparation to ISO 12944-4
All contamination, corrosion salts, grease, and residual plasticiser removed. Galvanised sections treated with T-Wash. All surfaces inspected against the ISO 12944-4 standard before priming commences.

6. Cut-Edge Treatment & Temabond Stripe Coat
All cut edges, bolt heads, fixings, and overlaps stripe-coated with Temabond ST200 at 100 microns DFT before the main primer coat.

7. Primer Application
The specified primer (Temadur 20 two-pack anti-corrosive primer, Giromax primer, or Liquisil system primer) is applied by airless spray to all prepared surfaces, achieving the required DFT at every area including complex profiles, valleys, and ribs.

8. Topcoat Application — Pass 1 & Pass 2
Minimum two full coats of the specified Temadur 20, Temadur 50, Giromax Roofcoat, or Liquisil Metalseal topcoat applied by professional airless spray — achieving a total minimum DFT of 200 microns across the entire cladding elevation.

9. Stage-by-Stage Audit & Manufacturer Sign-Off
A full project audit accompanies every stage. On completion, the system is signed off by the approved coating manufacturer and a full warranty document issued to the client.

Cladding Types We Coat
Cladding Type	Suitable?
Plastisol-coated steel	✅ Yes — specialist preparation required
PVF2 / PVDF-coated steel	✅ Yes — specialist PVDF system required
HP200 steel cladding	✅ Yes
UHPS200 steel cladding	✅ Yes
Galvanised steel	✅ Yes — T-Wash preparation required
Bare / weathered steel	✅ Yes
Aluminium cladding	✅ Yes
Kingspan composite panels	✅ Yes
Approved Applicators For The Best Products On The Market
HD Sharmans — Temadur 20 / 50 cladding systems, Seamsil cut-edge

Giromax — BBA-certified polymer hybrid cladding coatings

Liquisil — 25-year guaranteed silicone metal coatings

Rustoleum — Industrial anti-corrosion coating systems

PPG — Polyurethane exterior cladding topcoats

AkzoNobel — Professional exterior metal coatings

Rooflock — Roof and cladding refurbishment systems

Manor Coating Systems — Specialist protective coatings

Tor Coatings — Industrial and commercial coating systems

Meta Title (51 characters)
text
Cladding Spraying Services UK | Sparta Coatings
Meta Description (158 characters)
text
Approved applicators for HD Sharmans, Giromax & Liquisil cladding systems. Professional metal cladding spraying from £50/m². 10–25 year warranties. Free UK quote.
FAQ Schema
json
<script type="application/ld+json">
{
  "@context": "https://schema.org",
  "@type": "FAQPage",
  "mainEntity": [
    {
      "@type": "Question",
      "name": "What is cladding spraying?",
      "acceptedAnswer": {
        "@type": "Answer",
        "text": "Cladding spraying is the professional on-site application of specialist coating systems to existing metal, steel, aluminium, Plastisol, and PVF2 wall cladding — restoring appearance and protection without the cost of full cladding replacement."
      }
    },
    {
      "@type": "Question",
      "name": "How much does cladding spraying cost?",
      "acceptedAnswer": {
        "@type": "Answer",
        "text": "Cladding spraying at Sparta Coatings starts from £50 per m² for standard metal and steel cladding. Specialist Plastisol and PVDF systems are priced on survey. Contact us for a free, no-obligation site visit and written specification."
      }
    },
    {
      "@type": "Question",
      "name": "How long does cladding spraying last?",
      "acceptedAnswer": {
        "@type": "Answer",
        "text": "Our cladding systems carry manufacturer warranties of 10–25 years depending on the product specified. The HD Sharmans Temadur system carries a 10-year material warranty, Giromax carries a 20-year guarantee, and Liquisil Metalseal carries a 25-year guarantee — all issued by the manufacturer, not just the contractor."
      }
    },
    {
      "@type": "Question",
      "name": "Can you treat cut-edge corrosion on cladding?",
      "acceptedAnswer": {
        "@type": "Answer",
        "text": "Yes. Cut-edge corrosion is treated as a dedicated stage in our process — using Temabond ST200 stripe coat applied at 100 microns DFT to all sheet edges, bolt heads, and fixings before the main primer and topcoat system, in accordance with the HD Sharmans specification."
      }
    },
    {
      "@type": "Question",
      "name": "Can you spray Plastisol and PVF2 cladding?",
      "acceptedAnswer": {
        "@type": "Answer",
        "text": "Yes — but both require specialist preparation. Plastisol cladding requires solvent thinned wipe-down to remove residual plasticiser before priming. PVDF (PVF2) cladding requires specialist biocidal treatment and a PVDF-specific adhesion primer before the topcoat system."
      }
    },
    {
      "@type": "Question",
      "name": "Are you approved applicators for HD Sharmans and Giromax?",
      "acceptedAnswer": {
        "@type": "Answer",
        "text": "Yes. Sparta Coatings are approved applicators for HD Sharmans (Temadur 20/50 cladding systems and Seamsil cut-edge systems), Giromax (polymer hybrid cladding coatings), Liquisil (silicone metal coatings), and several other leading cladding coating manufacturers."
      }
    }
  ]
}
</script>