Warehouse & Industrial Unit Spraying Services | Sparta Coatings
Professional Industrial Exterior Spraying From Just £75/m²

Sparta Coatings provide specialist warehouse and industrial unit spraying services for commercial and industrial properties across the South of England and the wider UK. Whether you manage a distribution centre, factory, logistics hub, or industrial estate — if your building's exterior is faded, corroding, or letting down your brand — our professional coating service delivers a dramatic, durable transformation starting from just £75 per m².

[Get a Free Quote] [Call Us Today]

What Is Warehouse & Industrial Unit Spraying?
Warehouse and industrial unit spraying is the professional airless spray application of heavy-duty, industrial-grade coating systems to the exterior walls, cladding, steelwork, roller shutters, and associated surfaces of large commercial and industrial buildings.

Unlike domestic spraying, industrial exterior coating requires specialist knowledge of corrosion science, steel substrates, high-build application, and compliance with industry coating specifications (including ISO 12944 corrosion categories). Sparta Coatings are equipped and experienced to work at industrial scale — with minimal disruption to your operations.

Services include:

Exterior metal cladding and profiled steel wall panels

Steelwork, columns, and structural frame painting

Roller shutter doors and loading bay doors

Masonry and concrete block industrial elevations

Composite and insulated panel systems

Canopies, soffits, and fascia trims

Internal steelwork and mezzanine structures

Warehouse floor coatings

Warehouse & Industrial Spraying Pricing
Surface / Scope	Typical Price
Exterior cladding / steel wall panels	From £75/m²
Masonry / block exterior elevations	From £50/m²
Structural steelwork	From £75/m²
Roller shutter doors	From £850 per door
Full building exterior package	POA — free survey
All pricing includes full condition survey, preparation, priming, coating application, and project sign-off. Contact us for a free, no-obligation site visit and quotation.

Why Invest in Industrial Exterior Coating?
A poorly maintained building exterior sends the wrong message to clients, staff, and the public — and leaves your structure vulnerable to accelerating corrosion, water ingress, and costly structural repairs. A professionally coated exterior does the opposite.

Protects asset value — A well-maintained, freshly coated industrial building retains far greater value on the commercial property market

Prevents corrosion — Industrial-grade anti-corrosion primers inhibit rust and oxidisation on all steel and metal surfaces

UV and chemical resistance — Specialist topcoats resist UV degradation, acid rain, and industrial atmospheric pollutants

Dramatically cheaper than cladding replacement — Professional coating is typically 60–80% cheaper than re-cladding

Minimal operational disruption — Out-of-hours and phased working available to keep your operation running

Boosts corporate image — A freshly coated facility communicates professionalism to clients, suppliers, and staff

ISO 12944-compliant systems — We specify and apply coatings to the correct corrosivity category for your environment

10–20 year manufacturer warranties — Full project warranties available from approved coating suppliers

The Paints & Products We Use
Industrial exterior spraying demands the most robust coating systems available. Every product is selected based on the specific substrate, corrosivity category (C1–C5M per ISO 12944), and the client's required service life. We never use domestic or trade-grade products on industrial projects.

Surface Preparation Products
Industrial Strength Degreaser (Rust-Oleum or Jotun) — All surfaces are treated with a high-strength industrial degreaser to remove oils, grease, cutting fluids, and atmospheric contamination before any mechanical preparation begins

High-Pressure Water Jetting (up to 3,000 PSI) — Used to remove loose rust, failed coatings, biological growth, and surface contamination. Where required, abrasive blast cleaning (Sa2.5) is specified for bare steel preparation

Rust Converter (Rust-Oleum 769 Damp-Proof Primer) — Applied to areas of active surface rust, this certified C4-exposure rust inhibitor can be applied to slightly damp or dry metal with minimal surface preparation, chemically converting rust to a stable base layer

Primers
Rust-Oleum 769 / 780 Damp-Proof Rust Inhibitor Primer — A two-in-one rust inhibiting primer certified for C4 corrosion exposure conditions (ISO 12944). Tintable to 4,400+ colours. Ideal for aged and mildly corroded cladding, structural steelwork, and profiled steel panels on industrial buildings

Rust-Oleum 3302 CombiPrimer Adhesion Primer — A highly effective, fast-drying adhesion primer for galvanised steel, stainless steel, aluminium, and powder-coated surfaces — providing the ideal base for topcoat application on non-ferrous metals

Sherwin-Williams Dura-Plate 235 (2K Epoxy) — A high-build two-component epoxy primer for new construction and maintenance projects in C3–C5 environments. Provides exceptional corrosion protection and adhesion to blast-cleaned and power-tool-prepared steel. Used on major infrastructure projects including Heathrow T5, The Shard, and St Pancras

Jotun Penguard Express (2K Epoxy Zinc Phosphate) — A fast-drying, zinc-phosphate-pigmented epoxy primer for structural steel in high-corrosivity industrial environments. Low VOC, surface-tolerant, and suitable for overcoating within a wide time window

Topcoats
Rust-Oleum CombiColor Original (Direct-to-Metal) — A professional primer-and-topcoat-in-one for steel, cladding, and metal surfaces. Tintable to 4,400+ colours including all RAL shades. Corrosion inhibiting, lead and chromate free, UV-resistant, suitable for C3 industrial environments. Covers 10.3m² per litre

Rust-Oleum Hard Hat Topcoat — A high-performance professional topcoat for metal, wood, concrete, and masonry providing excellent adhesion, UV stability, and durability. Available in 45 colours and three finishes (gloss, satin, matte) for internal and external industrial use

Sherwin-Williams Hi-Build Coating (2K Polyurethane) — A premium two-component aliphatic polyurethane topcoat for industrial cladding and steelwork in high-specification projects. Exceptional UV and colour stability, chemical resistance, and gloss retention — used on major commercial and infrastructure projects across the UK

Rust-Oleum Mathys Noxyde (Elastomeric Anti-Corrosion Coating) — For cladding and composite panels requiring both corrosion protection and elastomeric crack-bridging capability. Applied at 200+ microns DFT as both primer and topcoat. UV-resistant, waterproof, and available in multiple colours

Johnstone's Trade Stormshield Smooth Masonry — For block work, concrete, and masonry-faced industrial elevations, providing a high-build, crack-bridging, weatherproof finish at significant scale via airless spray application

Specialist Coatings
Intumescent Fire Protection Coatings (Sherwin-Williams Firetex FX6000) — For structural steel requiring fire protection as part of a building's passive fire strategy, we apply Sherwin-Williams Firetex FX6000, the first intumescent coating to dry in just one hour, providing certified fire protection up to 120 minutes

Anti-Graffiti Topcoat (Rust-Oleum 4900 Polycoat 2K) — Applied as a sacrificial or permanent clear topcoat on industrial premises prone to graffiti vandalism, providing an easy-clean, non-porous surface that resists adhesion of spray paint and marker

ISO 12944 Corrosivity Category Guide
Category	Environment	Typical Industrial Setting
C1	Very low	Heated interior spaces
C2	Low	Rural and light urban exterior
C3	Medium	Urban and industrial exterior
C4	High	Industrial areas with chemical exposure
C5-I	Very high (industrial)	Heavy industry, chemical plants
C5-M	Very high (marine)	Coastal industrial environments
We specify the correct primer and topcoat system for your building's corrosivity category, ensuring you receive a system that matches your environment — not an under-specified commercial product.

Our Warehouse & Industrial Spraying Process
1. Free Site Survey & Coating Specification
We carry out a full condition survey of all external surfaces — assessing substrate type, corrosion category, existing coating adhesion, contamination levels, and any structural repair requirements. We provide a written coating specification, reference standard, and no-obligation quotation.

2. Method Statement & Risk Assessment
All industrial projects are supported by a full COSHH assessment, risk assessment, method statement, and proof of liability insurance before work commences.

3. HSE-Compliant Access
All working-at-height operations are carried out in full compliance with the Work at Height Regulations 2005, using appropriate scaffold, MEWP, or rope access systems as specified in the method statement.

4. Industrial Surface Preparation
Surfaces are degreased, pressure-washed, and mechanically prepared to the specified standard (St2/St3 power tool cleaning or Sa2.5 abrasive blast cleaning where required). All rust, failed coatings, and contamination are removed to a sound substrate.

5. Primer Application
The specified anticorrosive primer is applied by professional airless spray to full dry film thickness (DFT), achieving a continuous, pinhole-free base layer across all surfaces. DFT readings are taken throughout.

6. Intermediate Coat (Where Specified)
For high-specification systems in C4–C5 environments, an intermediate high-build epoxy coat is applied between the primer and topcoat to achieve the total system DFT required.

7. Topcoat Application
The final colour coat is applied in a minimum of two passes by professional airless spray, achieving the specified total DFT, colour uniformity, and finish quality across all surfaces.

8. DFT Verification, Audit & Warranty Sign-Off
Dry film thickness readings are taken at specified intervals across all surfaces. A full quality audit is completed, and manufacturer warranties are issued upon satisfactory sign-off.

Industries We Work With
Distribution and logistics warehousing

Food production and cold storage facilities

Manufacturing plants and factories

Trade counters and builders' merchants

Automotive and vehicle storage units

Self-storage facilities

Agricultural buildings and farm units

Retail and trade parks

MOD and government facilities

Meta Title (56 characters)
text
Warehouse & Industrial Spraying From £75/m² | Sparta Coatings
Meta Description (159 characters)
text
Professional warehouse & industrial unit spraying from £75/m². Anti-corrosion coating systems for steel cladding, steelwork & masonry. UK-wide. Get a free quote today.
FAQ Schema — Warehouse & Industrial Unit Spraying
json
<script type="application/ld+json">
{
  "@context": "https://schema.org",
  "@type": "FAQPage",
  "mainEntity": [
    {
      "@type": "Question",
      "name": "How much does warehouse exterior spraying cost?",
      "acceptedAnswer": {
        "@type": "Answer",
        "text": "Warehouse and industrial unit exterior spraying at Sparta Coatings starts from £75 per m² for metal cladding and steelwork, and from £50 per m² for masonry and block elevations. Full building packages are priced on a free site survey. Contact us for a no-obligation quotation."
      }
    },
    {
      "@type": "Question",
      "name": "What coating systems do you use on industrial buildings?",
      "acceptedAnswer": {
        "@type": "Answer",
        "text": "We use professional industrial coating systems including Rust-Oleum CombiColor, Sherwin-Williams Dura-Plate 2K epoxy primers, Jotun Penguard epoxy zinc phosphate primers, and Sherwin-Williams aliphatic polyurethane topcoats — all specified to the correct ISO 12944 corrosivity category for your building's environment."
      }
    },
    {
      "@type": "Question",
      "name": "Can you spray warehouses without disrupting operations?",
      "acceptedAnswer": {
        "@type": "Answer",
        "text": "Yes. We offer phased working, out-of-hours scheduling, and weekend working to ensure your operation continues throughout the project. All method statements and risk assessments are provided in advance for client approval."
      }
    },
    {
      "@type": "Question",
      "name": "Do you offer fire protection coatings for structural steel?",
      "acceptedAnswer": {
        "@type": "Answer",
        "text": "Yes. We apply Sherwin-Williams Firetex FX6000 intumescent coatings for structural steel requiring passive fire protection, providing certified fire resistance up to 120 minutes and drying in as little as one hour."
      }
    },
    {
      "@type": "Question",
      "name": "How long do industrial coatings last?",
      "acceptedAnswer": {
        "@type": "Answer",
        "text": "Industrial coating systems applied by Sparta Coatings are backed by manufacturer warranties of 10–20 years depending on the system specified, corrosivity category, and substrate condition. All projects are signed off with a full DFT verification and quality audit."
      }
    }
  ]
}
</script>